---
#jekyll yml front matter
layout: post
title: "Chaos part 2"
date: 2021-08-09 07:18 +100000
categories: philosophy zen chaos
---

In part one I talked about how I think that the universe has chaotic energy and forces in play, we don't understand how those work yet, and there's some evidence to suggest we aren't meant to understand things at that scale.

There's a little problem here to untangle. I suspect it's a *universal truth* that chaos is part of the fabric of the universe, but doesn't accepting that mean that all other similar universal truths are undermined by the fact that chaos disrupts them?

Our understanding and experience of something universal like gravity or the weather are examples where choas undermines our ability to state the truth.

**Experiences**
Two people standing in the same place will experience the temperature and weather conditions differently. That doesn't change what we consider to be an *objective truth* about the measurable temperature. It does speak to our perception and experience of that event, condition, or situation.

I wouldn't say that our perception of the world is inherently chaotic but we put our faith in our own experiences and those objective truths to determine reality.

A few seconds later, the weather conditions have *changed*. Perhaps by an infinitely small amount, too small for to measure or for our bodies to register. But they have changed, and in this way, chaos has entered the scene.

The weather is a chaotic element in our world. 

**Predictability**
It's important to civilizations, especially around agricultural production, to be able to plan activities around the local weather. To know in advance if a storm is coming, gives you the opportunity to prepare and protect livestock, crops, property, and people from danger.

Just because the weather is a chaotic element doesn't mean the entire scientitic practice of meterology is a waste of time. I think it's a scientific (and increasingly politicial) institution that, like the very systems and weather patterns it seeks to understand and predict, is subject to chaotic change.

To be continued...