---
#jekyll yml front matter
layout: post
title: "Day one"
date: 2022-10-24 09:40:00 +100000
categories: journal
---

## Journal

The timer starts, counting down from 4:59. That's how long I have to write this journal entry.

It was Niko's 2nd birthday today, and while we spent the day at home, he loved it. I'm grateful that we were able to spoil him and spend a bit time with family.

That's become really important to me. Partly because we've been specifically limited in spending quality time with family for a bunch of reasons, and because I hope Niko develops relationships with our family.

2:30. Halfway.

Our priorities have changed and our plans are changing. But Kt and I are both committed to this period of transformation.

0:59, 0:58.

A final word of advice to myself: don't drink coffee after 11am. It makes you stay up until 2am and that's not enough sleep when you have a two year old.

0:00 Time's up. Good night and much love.

## Hot take

I'm trying to reconcile philosophical ideas I've been thinking about since I was a young adult. The question I keep coming back to and can't answer is: are systems a good thing? Is the potential for a system to do positive things undermined by its conflict with nature?

How are we supposed to influence or even change things that are too big to comprehend? When it's unclear whether or not there's a net positive outcome of that system?

Are the inequalities and exploitations of capitalism somehow offset by the opporutnity for people who solve real problems and want to improve people's lives as well as their own? Does the fact that a billionaire creates a charity to eradicate a disease offset their obscene wealth?

How do we solve big global problems without people who are willing to make ridiculous amounts of money or gain a lot of power to make significant change?

I don't think there's ever a good answer, but I really like chewing on it anyway.

### Post script

Check out the Flight Facilities decade mixes on YouTube. Bit of a hidden gem to be honest, especially the 1992-2002 mix.